Greetings and a hearty welcome to J.W. Broadcasting.
Today, I'm joined by my co-host and friend, Don Gordon.
Don, what do we have in store for this month's program?
We all want to look our best.
But is it possible to care too much about our appearance?
Tony and Samantha will tell us what they learned.
Many years ago, Janice found the comfort and courage she needed to cope with discouraging circumstances.
We'll catch up with her in the next episode of the series. Where are they now?
And finally, we'll debut a new series that will bring Bible characters to life.
Well, let's get started.
This is the September 2023 edition of J.W. Broadcasting.
This month, I'd like to talk to you on the subject, Jehovah loves you, despite appearances, are imperfections.
You likely notice there are two areas we'll discuss, our appearance and our imperfections.
Why address these two aspects?
It's because there's a percentage of Jehovah's faithful servants that wonder if Jehovah can really love them because of one of those two reasons or both.
Let's take appearances first.
When you've gotten all cleaned up and are fully dressed each day and you're glassed of full length mirror, are you pleased with the way you look?
Would you like to change a few things, but you can't?
Some of us tend to compare ourselves to other imperfect humans and adopt the thinking of the masses.
Movies and television have blinded many to reality, making them feel that the beauty of the human body must look like the handsome and beautiful movie stars.
However, comparing ourselves to them can often be very disappointing, time consuming and even expensive.
If you go to great lengths to try to look more like another person.
It's true, some have been born with a physical impairment or disability.
This may be obvious to others, and some unkind people might have made comments or teased the person.
That can make a person feel self-conscious or even create a feeling of low self-esteem.
This can become slow and ingrained in one's thinking that he might begin to feel no one could love him.
And at times, that kind of erroneous thinking can even affect a person's view of Jehovah's love.
However, please be assured that Jehovah loves us despite our physical appearance.
It's been said, beauty is only skin deep. It fades with time.
Just look at a picture of yourself when you were, let's say, 17.
And then look at one when you are in your 80s. You say, that's not me. Oh yes it is.
Humans are sometimes enamored by appearances.
We don't mean to do this, but we may get caught up in this trap, a faithful prophet of Jehovah fell into this type of reasoning.
Do you remember when Jehovah told Samuel to anoint the next king of Israel?
At first Samuel, chapter 16, verse 3,
Jehovah told Samuel to go to Jesse in the Bethlehem and there he said,
you must anoint for me the one whom I designate to you. Do you have that in your mind?
Samuel, you must anoint the one whom I designate to you. What happened?
Samuel defaulted to the way human sometimes a few others or appearances.
Let's read what happened. It's recorded at first Samuel chapter 16, verse 6.
It reads,
as they came in and he saw Eliad, he said,
surely here before Jehovah stands his anointed one.
Samuel didn't really know Eliad, but he was impressed with his appearance.
He was tall and likely a good looking man. Read along with me on the screen, verse 7.
Jehovah's wave assessing our worth before him is very different.
Verse 7 says,
But Jehovah said to Samuel,
do not pay attention to his appearance and how tall he is for I have rejected him.
Now note this,
for the way man sees is not the way God sees,
because mere man sees what appears to the eyes.
But Jehovah sees into the heart.
Jehovah's view of beauty is different from ours.
Close your little eyes for a minute and see what your mind's eye.
A beautiful bird.
Now open your eyes.
Which bird did you see?
Was it an indigo bunting?
A cardinal?
Or a Baltimore Oreo?
Those are beautiful birds.
But does Jehovah prefer one bird over another just because of his beauty or appearance?
What bird did Jesus choose in teaching his disciples a valuable lesson about Jehovah?
He used a sparrow.
A plain somewhat drab looking little bird of small monetary value.
Follow along on screen as I read Matthew 10 verses 29 and 31.
Two sparrow sell for a coin of small value.
Do they not?
Yet not one of them will fall to the ground without your father's knowledge.
But even the hairs of your head are all numbered.
So have no fear.
You are worth more than many sparrows.
Jesus represented Jehovah's view of all those who have dedicated themselves to Him
and are trying to remain faithful.
Think about it.
Jehovah likely notices when an indigo bunting, a cardinal, or a Baltimore Oreo falls to the ground.
But Jesus made a significant point when He chose to use a sparrow in His illustration.
Jehovah is not impressed with the beauty of one's physical appearance.
He loves us as much as He loves any of His faithful servants, despite our appearance.
In fact, Jesus went a step further and said,
You are worth more than many sparrows.
You're not just a bird.
You are a precious human who has come to know and love Jehovah.
He loves you not because of your appearance.
Being handsome, drab looking, short, heavy, skinny, bold, beautiful, less than beautiful,
having warts or a limp or missing limbs.
Being cross-eyed or having a different skin color or shape of your eyes.
No.
Jehovah loves you because of who you are at heart.
Do you remember what Jehovah told Samuel?
Man sees what appears to the eyes, but Jehovah sees into the heart.
Yes, Jehovah looks at you and sees the secret person of the heart that came to love your God, the universal sovereign.
You cannot take that aspect away from the attention of Jehovah.
If you love Him like Jesus indicates you can, He loves you, despite any external appearances.
You likely remember Jesus said at Mark 12-30.
You must love Jehovah your God with your whole heart and with your whole soul
and with your whole mind and with your whole strength.
That's it.
Jesus did not add and your good looks.
No.
Your appearance is not a factor in your love for Jehovah or his love for you.
Maybe you say, I am crippled in both feet.
I have a trouble walking.
I feel dead inside.
You are not the first servant of Jehovah to feel that way.
The Phoebe chef evidently felt that way.
He too was crippled in both feet.
King David had just honored him by promising to give him property and the privilege of eating his meals with the king.
Notice how the Phoebe chef felt about himself at 2 Samuel chapter 9 verse 8.
What is your servant that you have turned your attention to a dead dog like me?
He did not have a high opinion of himself.
It sounds like low self-esteem, doesn't it?
If you have a physical impairment or a defect,
you are not dead but very much alive in Jehovah's eye.
Listen to what Jehovah tells you at Melachi chapter 4 verse 2.
But on you who honor my name, the son of righteousness will shine with healing in its rays
and you will skip about like fattened calves.
Do what you can with what you have to work with knowing Jehovah loves you and ultimately will correct any physical problem.
You will then be able to live for all eternity without any concerns about your appearance.
Now let's talk about Jehovah's love for us despite our imperfections.
If you're a human, you're imperfect.
Sorry, that's just the way it is.
Adam passed imperfection onto all of us.
Being imperfect, we will all make mistakes.
We all do without exception.
You'll be embarrassed at your imperfect reaction at times.
But it happens.
Jehovah knows our condition.
He knows what Adam handed down to us.
Yet he still loves us despite imperfection.
It really is not our fault.
How can Jehovah still love us when we make mistakes?
Use poor judgment on occasion.
And at times fall into serious sin, though we're sorry and repentant that way.
It's on the basis of Jesus' ransom sacrifice.
Let's read Mark 10, verse 45, from the screen.
For even the Son of Man came not to be ministered to, but to minister and to give his life as a ransom in exchange for many.
Jesus absorbs our mistakes.
This is possible because he gave his perfect human life for us in exchange for what Adam lost and passed on to us.
And look with me at 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verse 22.
For just as an Adam, all are dying.
So also in the Christ, all will be made alive.
That's beautiful.
Jehovah does not hold our imperfections against us.
As long as we acknowledge our imperfections and feel remorse in our repentant, he loves us despite the issue.
Revelation chapter 21, verses 1 through 5, says that in time humans will experience the removal of tears, morning, outcry, pain, and even death.
All of these painful situations are based on the sin of Adam.
They will then be gone.
For obedient humans, this means a return to the perfect state enjoyed by man at the beginning of human history in the Garden of Eden.
So the humans will be able to enjoy not only perfection as to faith and love, but perfection as to sinlessness.
At that time, they'll measure up fully and fallously to God's righteous standards for humans.
Can you imagine that glorious time?
Of course, perfection at that time does not mean an end to variety, as some persons often assume.
The animal kingdom, which is the product of Jehovah's perfect activity, contains enormous variety.
Our perfect earth is likewise filled with variety, change, and contrast.
It allows for the simple and the complex, the plain and the fancy, the sour and the sweet, the rough and the smooth, the metals and the woods, the mountains and the valleys.
It embraces the stimulating freshness of early spring, the warmth of summer, the liveliness of autumn colors, and the pure beauty of freshly fallen snow.
Perfect humans will not be stereotypes with identical personalities, talents and abilities.
But the beauty is that with all of the variety of appearances, talents and personalities, imperfection will be no more.
Please be assured that, as we've considered from the Scriptures, Jehovah loves each one of us, despite our appearances, our imperfections.
May we all fully love and adore Jehovah and his Son, Christ Jesus, in return.
Thank you, Brother Heard, for those encouraging reminders.
We know our young people want to look good, but how do you avoid becoming obsessed with how you look?
That's the topic of the next episode of the series, My Teen Life.
Oh, most definitely I felt awkward. I didn't wear my clothes a certain way, or I didn't hide my hair, kept a certain way.
I didn't wear this latest shoes.
It can be really easy to get cut up on social media and trying to see what the new trends were, trying to see how others look.
Should I look like that? Why don't I look like that? What can I do to look like that?
I paid such a high price for the body I was going after.
I was going after unrealistic beauty standards.
It allowed me to be diagnosed with an eating disorder.
Focusing on my parents too much affected me spiritually, even though I was in service, even though I was present for family worship.
I wasn't focused. I was thinking more of what I'm going to wear tomorrow.
My parents were a great help.
They took time to actually listen to my feelings and what I was going through.
It was not necessarily any formal setting.
It was actually in informal settings where we can be in the car and we were just talking.
Or we're sitting in the couch watching TV and my dad would just talk to me and kind of see how I was doing how my day went.
My father, he kind of sat me down and he shared two really important scriptures with me.
In 1st Peter 3, 3 and 4, which says, do not let your abdomen be external.
You don't want to focus too much on how you look on the outer parents.
And the reason being is found in Proverse 31 30, where it says beauty may be fleeting.
So even though we may put so much effort into how we look on the outer parents, eventually that's going to go away.
Something that has really helped me is giving myself time and the day to get off of social media, get off the internet,
and giving time, dedicate time to Jehovah.
I own followed models and influencers that made me feel more insecure by myself.
And I would study Bible characters of the past such as Abigail, Sarah, Ruth, letting myself be influenced by them was a game changer for me.
What made them more beautiful to the eyes of Jehovah were their qualities, how they treated others, their personality,
how they search Jehovah with loyalty.
As I examine those scriptures, I feel like something clicked in my head.
Being attractive physically, it just didn't really make much of a difference to me anymore.
Making sure I prayed before my day started, I learned to really let Jehovah in and make my prayers meaningful.
There were a few elders, some even became almost as close as best friends to me.
The elders really helped me when I came to how I could take more attention off of me, how I could focus on helping others.
Knowing that I'm making Jehovah happy by helping others get to know him and making disciples is what makes me happy now.
And as a pioneer, I finally was able to attend my first pioneer school in March of 2021, which was an amazing blessing from Jehovah.
I worked on being more open to people, being more present, being more available.
And trust me, it paid off for me because eventually I received much more privileges in the congregation.
I was able to serve in different capacities in Jehovah's organization.
And above all, I was more happy.
Thank you, Tony and Samantha, for those candid experiences.
Cultivating kindness and goodness will make us happy and draw us closer to our friends and closer to Jehovah.
In a recent morning worship program, Brother William Turner explains that these inner qualities don't just make us beautiful to Jehovah, but they also make us valuable to him.
What do you think makes us valuable to Jehovah?
Is it our natural ability?
Our many years of faithful service?
Is it our Bethel assignment?
Well, turn with me and your Bible's to 1 Peter chapter 3.
And we'll let Jehovah answer this through his word for us.
1 Peter chapter 3 and we'll reverse 4.
But let it be the secret person of the heart in the incorruptible adornment of the quiet and mild spirit, which is of great value in the eyes of God.
Of course, we know in the full context of the opening verses here in 1 Peter chapter 3, Peter is referring to Christian women.
But if we isolate this phrase in verse 4, the secret person of the heart.
Well, that applies to all of us, brothers and sisters, because it's referring to who we are on the inside, our thoughts, our beliefs, our emotions.
That's why David prayed in Psalm 51 verse 10 for Jehovah to create within him a pure heart, because that's what Jehovah sees and examines.
That is what is valuable to him.
And that's what all of us are striving to do to serve him in that way.
And the beautiful thing is that when Jehovah sees that we're trying to serve him this way,
not only does that make us valuable to him, but he will also give us whatever we need in whatever assignment we happen to have.
Now, just to prove this, let's look at three different occasions in various stages of David's life, all related to his assignment in warfare.
We'll start with the account in 1 Samuel chapter 17.
When it was determined that David was going to fight Goliath, you recall that he was clothed with Saul's armor.
Now, luckily, that was quite the privilege to fight with the King's armor.
But notice the middle of verse 39, after David tries it on, look at what happens.
David said to Saul, I am unable to go in these things before I am not used to them.
So David took them off.
So valuable armor, but David wasn't equipped to use it.
It didn't fit him or his circumstances at the time.
But you notice David didn't let that stop him.
Instead, he used what worked for him.
He looked for five smooth stones, and with Jehovah's help, that was more than enough for him to carry out his assignment.
Perhaps we know of brothers and sisters, maybe here at Bethel or in the field,
who at one time may have been hesitant in having a Bible study or engaging in some other aspect of the ministry,
maybe because they felt they didn't have the skill of a seasoned pioneer, and yet they excelled.
And Jehovah blessed their efforts.
You see, they didn't let that stop them.
They just worked with what they had, their love for Jehovah, their sincerity, and Jehovah blessed them.
The point is, due to our circumstances, we may not all have the experience, the training,
the figurative king's armor, so to speak, for a particular assignment.
But we still should not let that stop us in our efforts to serve Jehovah.
We find what works for us.
And it may be that for time, we may feel that we're just working with a couple of figurative smooth stones.
But Jehovah says that is more than enough for us to carry out our assignment.
Well, let's consider the second occasion.
Some time later now, David is trained, he's skilled, he's quite the warrior.
And in 1 Samuel 18 verse 4, he gets another privilege, this time, to use the armor of Saul's son, Jonathan.
And he's successful.
He wins many battles.
To the point where in verse 7, the women are celebrating.
Saul has struck down his thousands, and David, his tens of thousands.
Well, what makes David so successful?
When watched our noted that David's fighting was a matter of courage,
because he repeatedly inquired of Jehovah as to his moving into battle,
showing that he was being guided by Jehovah and not merely love of conquest.
What can we take away from this?
Even if we're privileged to do many things in the organization,
we should never let our intellect, our privilege, our position, our natural abilities stop us from seeking Jehovah's direction first.
That can help us to maintain humility, to keep us valuable to Jehovah.
Thought it was interesting. The watchtower also mentioned one of the reasons that the women were able to sing and celebrate, David,
was because of how David inspired his men in battle.
So clearly, David must have worked along well with others.
He encouraged his men. He motivated them. He brought out the best in them.
And together, they were able to have many victories in behalf of Jehovah.
Well, isn't that a nice reminder for family heads, congregation elders,
our overseers and crew leaders here at Bethel?
When we maintain the right disposition,
Jehovah can use us to inspire, to motivate and encourage those that we work with.
And then together, we can accomplish much to Jehovah's praise.
One final occasion, this time in 2 Samuel.
At this point, David is now older. He's won many battles.
But in yet another war with the Palestinians, notice what happens to him.
This 2 Samuel chapter 21, 2 Samuel chapter 21, will read verse 15.
It says so once again, there was a war between the Palestinians and Israel.
So David and his servants went down and fought the Philistines, but David became exhausted.
This time, David, even with his armor, was in a situation that almost got him killed.
Now, the courage was still there, but his strength wasn't.
He was exhausted.
So in verse 17, how grateful he must have been that men like Abishai had kept an eye on him
and quickly came to his aid.
If you go back a couple of chapters to chapter 18, in verses 3 and 4,
this matter of David going out to fight had come up before.
But you notice when you look at those verses, it was not as if the men were stopping David from doing anything.
They just wanted him to do work that fit his circumstances.
And in verse 4, we see the wisdom of David in agreeing to do so.
But doesn't this make us think of our dear, faithful older ones in the family?
We love all of you so dearly, we hold you in high esteem.
And we know that Jehovah treasures and values you as well, because he sees your heart.
And he knows that your strength may not be as it once was, but your faith, your love, your courage, your zeal.
It's all there, and it's the strongest ever.
So we're so appreciative of our brotherhood, this Bethel family, where we have members like Abishai,
where it's such a privilege for them and us to come to your aid and support when we can.
And Jehovah certainly appreciates your willingness to do whatever work you're able to do as it fits your circumstances.
So what a reminder it is to know that it's not our strength or natural ability that draws us closer to Jehovah.
It's that secret person of the heart, a pure heart that makes us valuable to God.
And when we serve him in that way, he will give us whatever we need, regardless of our situation or circumstances,
to always serve him in a way that he approves.
What brother Turner said is true.
Jehovah values us and will give us what we need to fulfill our commission to preach, even if we feel we lack strength or natural abilities.
Our music video this month is entitled, He knows us.
It reassures us that when we are discouraged or tired or afraid, Jehovah knows how we feel.
When we were woven in the depths of the earth, before we even came into this world,
Jehovah saw right from the start, beeped down inside our beating heart.
Just stop and think what that means.
He knows you. He knows me.
What we feel.
What we see.
When we try hard to give our best.
The joys we feel and our regrets.
He knows you.
He knows me.
What we need.
What we believe.
When we can find the words to say we're not alone.
He knows like a father wants his child to succeed.
That's how he feels about you.
He sifts through us and sees where we shine.
And who we can be in paradise.
So always know that he cares.
He knows you.
He knows me.
What we feel.
What we see.
When we try hard to give our best.
The joys we feel and our regrets.
He knows you.
He knows me.
What we need.
What we believe is to say we're not alone.
He knows.
He knows you, he knows me.
What we need.
What we plead.
Is so catchy and uplifting.
I think we'll all be singing.
He knows us for days to come.
Discouragement and cage.
us for days to come. Discouragement can be a powerful enemy. In the April 22nd, 2001 issue of
a wake, Janice Adams told how Jehovah helped her overcome discouragement and maintain a positive
attitude despite many trials. Let's find out how she's doing now. I was born deaf and I attended a
school for the deaf. Later, I attended college. While I was there, I noticed that my vision was
deteriorating and I couldn't understand why. I was informed that I was going blind. I was stunned.
I was also given an article and in the article, I noticed one sentence that said,
deaf blind people are the loneliest people in the world. I was devastated.
Being both deaf and blind is challenging. I've had to learn how to live independently,
but the most important thing that I've learned is learning about Jehovah, the true God.
Some people might imagine that a deaf blind person would be too limited to serve Jehovah fully.
That's far from the truth. Let me give you some examples of my service.
Some of the ways that I support the congregation are by attending meetings,
being regular in service. Sometimes I can be helpful in training others how to be more effective
teachers. I often join others on their Bible studies. I've been able to pioneer for many years
and this is something that I really enjoy. Over the years, my husband and I have had the
opportunity to preach in many countries. In some of the countries, the deaf ministry was just
getting started. For example, we went to Honduras in Central America. They only had two small groups.
We first went for a few months, then returned and stayed for a year. What a great experience
to participate and see the growth in the field. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic,
I was accustomed to being a self-sufficient person. For example, I could go out on my own with
my guide dog. We could go to the Kingdom Hall to meet the brothers and sisters, but then COVID-19
hit and I was stuck at home, isolated. While it's true that we still had meetings and service
arrangements on Zoom, it wasn't easy. The only person who could interpret for me was my husband.
No one else. It was tough. He was exhausted. We both were. It was something we had to endure.
In time, when it became safe enough, a few of the brothers and sisters volunteered to come
and help interpret. That really built me up. I could finally have direct contact with my friends.
I was thrilled. I also received a lot of support from the congregation.
There are many willing volunteers to tactile interpret for me at the meetings.
That gives me joy. I always know that if I have a problem, I can share my thoughts and feelings
with others. They will listen and support me, no matter what the future brings.
I remember the scripture at Isaiah 41-10. It says,
Do not be afraid for I am with you. I know that Jehovah encourages me. He will help me.
I don't have to worry. While it's true that I'm deaf and blind, I'm not one of the
loneliest people in the world. I'm a happy person because I have many friends.
I have the joy of helping others to learn about God and I have the best friend ever, Jehovah.
Our faith grows strong when we imitate the faith of fellow Christians like Janice and those in
the Bible who love Jehovah. When we read God's Word, we want to visualize what life was like for
these people of faith. We want to see what they saw, hear what they heard, and feel what they felt.
We must immerse ourselves in their stories. We're happy to debut a new series that we hope
will help you do just that. Please enjoy the first episode of the series, imitate their faith.
Dinner's almost ready. Please tell Shem. We'll be right there, Mom.
Well, Abram, before we go in, let me tell you the rest. I was just a young man back then.
After Jehovah gave my father the command to build the ark, it took decades to complete.
Then we had to gather food and all the animals.
We had no idea how long we would be inside. But when Jehovah closed the ark's door,
we were ready. So were you scared?
Abram, I know you're just a boy, but things have happened to you that have scared you, right?
I was older than you, but I was still scared. When we were building the ark, people thought we were
crazy. And then, just like Jehovah said it would, it happened. Only eight were saved. My parents,
my brothers, and our wives. We are living proof that Jehovah's word never fails.
Jehovah promised my father that he would never again destroy all life of a global flood.
I want you to know I was scared, but I know to trust Jehovah. When Jehovah promises something that
we've never seen, it takes a special quality to believe it. Do you know what that quality is?
Faith.
Abraham and Sarah lived in earth, a city full of people who worshiped pagan gods,
but like Noah and Shem, Abraham and Sarah worshiped Jehovah.
Wow, from your land, and from your relatives, and come into the land that I will show you.
Where will we live? We'll be so far away from our family.
I have every confidence that if we do, a Jehovah asks that things will turn out fine.
Well, wherever it is, I will be by your side. There is nothing I would even sacrifice for Jehovah.
I know. Abraham and Sarah, I left earth. They lived in hay ran for some time,
but Jehovah told Abraham to keep moving. Living in tents was not easy.
But the caravan gradually settled into a routine of travel.
Abraham's nephew Lot was like a brother to him, but as their flocks grew large,
tension grew between their groups. Please, there should be no quarreling between me and you
for we are brothers, is not the whole land available to you. Please separate from me.
If you go to the left, then I will go to the right.
Though it must have hurt their hearts, they agreed to part ways. Lot moved east to the district
of the Jordan, where the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah were located. After Lot had gone,
Jehovah made a promise about Abraham's future. Raise your eyes, please, and look from the place
where you are, to the north and south, east and west. Because all the land that you see,
I will give to you and your offspring as a lasting possession.
And I will make your offspring like the dust particles of the earth.
Abraham, do not fear, Abraham. I am a shield for you. Your reward will be very great.
Sauer Lord Jehovah, what will you give me, saying that I continue childless?
Go outside. Look up. Please, to the heavens and count the stars. If you are able to do so,
so your offspring will become. Later, Jehovah changed Abrams name to Abraham,
which means father of a multitude. He also changed Sarah's name to Sarah, which means princess.
Every day, these new names would remind them of Jehovah's promise. And Jehovah didn't stop there.
He sent three angels to reassure Abraham with even more good news. Within the year,
he and Sarah would have a son, but they also brought other news.
Through one of the angels, Jehovah said,
The outcry against Sodom and Gomorrah is indeed great, and their sin is very heavy.
Will you really sweep away the righteous with the wicked? Suppose there are 50 righteous men within
the city. Will you then sweep them away and not pardon the place for the sake of the 50 righteous
who are inside it? It's unthinkable of you. Will the judge of all the earth not do it as right?
If I find Sodom 50 righteous men in the city, I will pardon the whole place for their sake.
Please hear I presume to speak to Jehovah, whereas I am dust and ashes. Suppose a 50 righteous should
lack five. Because the five will you destroy the whole city? Abraham knew that the judge of all the
earth always does what is right, but knowing and trusting are two different things.
I will not destroy it for the sake of the 20. Jehovah, please do not become hot with anger,
but let me speak just once more. Suppose only 10 are found there. I will not destroy it for the sake
of the 10. I have seen in my life that everything that Jehovah promises always comes true.
Throughout your life, have full confidence, Jehovah will always do what is right. Do you want to see
part two of the story of Abraham? Me too. But we have to wait till next month, so be sure to tune in.
Imitate their faith has been a beloved series in the Watchtower magazine since 2008,
and more recently it's been online at jw.org. Note this excerpt from the introduction to
the printed edition. Are they that real to you? Imagine what it would be like to walk and talk
with them to spend time getting to know such men and women as Noah, Abraham,
Ruth, Elijah, and Esther. Think of the influence they might have on your life,
the precious words of advice and encouragement they might offer.
It's our earnest prayer that you'll use this new series to build a faith that's equal to any
test that comes your way. We've enjoyed a delightful program. We learn that Jehovah's love is not
based on appearance or imperfection. When we serve him as best we can, we are beautiful in his eyes.
Our life segment reminded us that striving for the world's beauty standards can rob us of our
self-esteem, but building the inner qualities Jehovah values can make us truly happy.
In our music video, reassured us that through hard times and hard feelings, Jehovah understands us
and knows what we need. Thank you, Brother Heard, and please thank the governing body for
providing the new Imitate Their Faith series. Our video postcard this month comes from a land of
sweeping vistas and dramatic scenery, Japan. On Japan's largest island of Honshu, we find the Tohoku
region renowned for its hot springs, cold and snowy winters, delicious rice, and fresh seafood.
Facing the Pacific Ocean is the stunning San Riku coast. Over 250 kilometers of zig-zag granite cliffs,
some rising 200 meters out of the sea. Tourists can ride the San Riku railway along the coast
to see the spectacular views. Those who want to stretch their legs and appreciate the natural
splendor on foot can walk the more than 1,000 kilometer Michinoku coastal trail, which stretches from
the Almore prefecture to the Fukushima prefecture. Fukushima was the site of a nuclear disaster that
followed the terrible earthquake and tsunami in March of 2011. Thousands lost their loved ones,
homes, their livelihood. The devastation was felt throughout the country.
155 congregations were in the area affected by the tsunami. Despite the difficult conditions,
277 elders moved in to comfort and assist the congregations. Our Japanese brothers and sisters
wanted to comfort others and were eager to resume organized preaching. Within a month,
publishers were sharing the Bible's message of hope with their neighbors. As they went out,
they contacted many inactive ones who have since resumed associated with the congregation.
12 years later, Jehovah's people continue searching for sheep-like ones. Let's visit three
congregations in the San Riku area. These congregations, each with fewer than 60 publishers,
still deliver a mighty shout of praise. The tsunami and resulting disaster had a big
effect on those in the territory. Many began to realize that spiritual things are more important
than what we can see. Our brothers have done their best to fill the void that many are feeling
with the Bible's message of hope. Since the 2011 disaster, 20 Bible students have dedicated
themselves to Jehovah and have gotten baptized. The Kamaishi Ofunato and Riku's Entakata congregations
send their Christian love and affection. From the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses,
this is J.W. Broadcasting.